There is an English proverb that says, "Books and friends should be few but good". And "Except a living man there is nothing more wonderful than a book!" I totally agree with it.

Any book is a wonderful thing! Just imagine – it may seem that it's just paper pages with a cover and letters inside, sometimes with pictures. But the moment you start reading a book the whole new world opens to you! New characters, scenes, lives, events. It's like real life in miniature. So, a book is truly one of the greatest inventions of man. We learn so many things by reading books. Books teach us to live. A book can be a faithful friend and a teacher. Reading a book you open new horizons for yourself. A book can form our values and our characters. It gives us an opportunity to imagine the future and to look into the past. One can learn a lot by reading books. And I am sure that the time spent on a good book is never wasted. And it's really a pity that people started to read less. But it, of course, depends on the author greatly too and on his or her talent.

Books are of great help in any education. That's why we have so many libraries in our country where we can choose any book we like or need. There are different kinds of books in any library – special literature, belles-lettres, science fiction, periodicals like magazines and newspapers and so much more. Everyone has the right to use public libraries. The librarian is always ready to help you to find a book on any subject.

But nowadays Internet libraries have become more popular and people use them more often. Now we can find and read on-line almost any book or literary piece in the Internet. And I find it very convenient. Because it saves time a lot. But I am sure that no matter how convenient it is to get a book on-line there is still no bigger pleasure than reading a printed book.

Different people like to read different kinds of it. It depends on one's character and taste. Some people prefer fiction (novels, stories, short stories), some prefer detectives or science fiction. Others like historical books. Girls and women prefer love stories. Children like comics very much.

As for me, I'm personally fond of reading books. I like reading fiction.

I prefer reading science fiction. It is so interesting to read books by George Herbert Wells or Isaac Asimov. They speak about such things that have become real. How did they know? How could they know? That's a mystery and it is what makes science fiction interesting and fascinating.
